1.

API
Api stands for applicaion programming interface
it is a tool for software application that provides communication between the applications
APIs are used to enable the integration of differnt applications so as to work together
Real life uasge of API is Wheather API
In Wheather API Wheather application is client and Wheather API is Server

2.
Advantages:
1) Scalability
2) Efficiency
3) Interperobility
4) Innovation
Disadvantages:
1) Security Concerns
2) Dependancy
3) Documentation Maintainence
4) Limeted Control

3.

Web API:
it stands for web Application Programming Interface
It is a tool for different software application over the web
It is accessed by using HTTP or HTTPs protocols

APIs                                                     Web APIs
-> it is a tool for software application               -> It is a tool for different software application over the web
that provides communication between the applications
-> APIs are used to enable the integration of          -> It is accessed by using HTTP or HTTPs protocols
differnt applications so as to work together
-> communication between different components of        -> communication between different components of web applicatioms
a single application 

4.

REST (Representational State Transfer):
REST is an architectural style for designing networked applications. 
In a REST architecture, resources are identified by URIs, and interactions are stateless.
 RESTful services use standard HTTP methods (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE) for communication and typically return data in a lightweight format like JSON or XML.
Flexibility
Simple and Scalable

SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol):
SOAP is a protocol for exchanging structured information in web services. 
It uses XML as its message format and relies on HTTP, SMTP, or other transport protocols.
SOAP services are described using Web Services Description Language (WSDL)

Short Comings are :
Complex
Not Flexible
Light Weight
Performance

5.

REST                                                       SOAP
Stateless                                                 Stateful
HTTP protocols is used                                    HTTP And SMTP protocol
More Flexible                                             less Felsxible
Simple                                                    Complex
RESTful Web services                                      SOAP web services
High Scalability                                          Low Scalability


6.
